To get things started, MTEP stands for "Mobile-Targeted Executale Project" which I used in lieu of "app" due to the fact that if you tell other college compsci's you are building an app, before you can finish your sentence, they will have one of two internal reactions: first, "Oh brother, _another_ app dev, or "I want to be rich, let me help". And as this project was _merely_ to familiarize myself with the Android development platform, neither of those responses were appropriate. Nevertheless, the spring of my freshman year of college, I embarked into the ever-so-popular realm of Android application development.

Now I did not want to spend a large amount of time fiddling with the UI, so I needed something simple and something that preferably included inter-app communication as I wanted server side as well client side coding experience. Thus I figured that a generic social media app would give me a decent introduction; managing profile information, storing user data in a database, as well basic UI development would cover my bases.

Over the course of a month or so, I implemented persistent storage in the form of image files and JSON documents, a Java networking client, and a Node.js + MongoDB server. Through the use of Android Studio (based in IntelliJ), developing for Android is not terribly difficult, the layout of the app can be created through a tasteful union of visual drag-and-drop as well as editing the underlying XML directly. As is typical for UI-based applications, the bulk of the programmatic logic is handled through event handlers. Overall, the Android side of this project along with Ruby on Rails development is responsible for my strong grasp of the Model View Controller fraework.

Node.js and MongoDB were both platforms I had heard much a bout yet had no experience with; so I was keen to try something new and selected them for the server. My experience with Javascrip thus far had been completely client side, and it had not come off as particularl pleasant or interesting, but using on the server side as part of Node.js was rather enjoyable and provided an effective introdution to the callback framework and handling client requests as a whole. This was much higher level than the what I had learned from Emerald Eyes and its C sockets and served as quite the compliment. By the time I began the work in MongoDB, my project had been eclipsed by my work as an intern. My internship project consisted largely of develpment in Google Web Toolit (Java) and MongoDB. In the end, I forwent further development on the MTEP and Node.js project in order to begin develpment on this very website. MongoDB is a fun develpment tool, but a double dose of it was a bit more than I can handle.x