Throughout my high school years, I spend my summers volunteering for my high schools ecological research project; in conjunction of local business, we were studying the effect that different soil coverings (mulch, fertilizer, compost, etc.) had on the growth of maple trees. This inevitably entailed collecting and processing large amounts of data. Initially, the analysis was all done by hand via an interactive R console. I saw the inefficiency of this and took it upon myself to write scripts using R that could complete the 5 minute task of running a dataset by hand in matter of seconds; this improvement is vast when taken into account that there are hundreds of datasets and that the amount of data is only increasing. Recently, the research has gone towards developing new products for a company called Precision Organics, giving me a taste of what readl research and development is like.

While at Marist College, I have been part of the IT department's ResNet team; ResNet is a group of techicians that provide basic computer services, such as troubleshooting and virus removal, to the rest of the college community. While I much prefer working with the source code of the programs I am troubleshooting, my time at ResNet has given me experience with Windows and Mac OS (I am hardcore Linux user) in addition to basic skills such as customer service and problem sovling.

Most recently, I have been spending my post-freshman summer (2015) working as a software engineering intern at Workday located in Pleasanton, California. Workday is a cloud-based, SaaS ERP software company which basically means they build software to help companies manage payroll, finances, and other human capital needs. While I cannot spill all of the company's secrets, I can say that I have been designed and built a database in MongoDB with a front end built using Google Web Tookit. I have learned a lot about data processing, data mining, collaborative software development, and agile programming.

I intend on similarly pursuing an internship the summer of 2016.

